All right guys we are back then.
Thank you for being here.
So far in the SCA section of of course we've talked about how Google works and the importance of keyword
research.
The more you understand these topics the better prepared you'll be to create pages that rank well on
the ESA R P's.
Remember those are the search engine result pages or you just Serps.
Well Google's algorithm takes a lot of things into consideration when it ranks pages.
Now these things are called ranking factors and they relate to the quality clarity and usability of
your page.
Most of these ranking factors are things on or inside your page like the words you typed out or the
code in each meal tax you use to build the page.
So I want to talk about those factors in this lecture.
They're also known as the on page MCO factors and how you can improve those for your own Web site.
The first few things I want to mention are the things that actually appear on the search engine result
page.
Let's do a quick search and you'll see what I mean.
For example let's search for how to install a sprinkler system for people who own homes and businesses
with grassy areas.
If you decided you wanted to to put in a sprinkler system by yourself you might search for something
like this.
So look at the page results.
It lists each result has a title.
That's the big link.
You click to get the page you want.
It's gonna have the U.R.L. the actual address of that page and that's a description which is sometimes
a custom written description of your page.
Or it might be an excerpt from the page a small section that might have a search term right in there.
Of the three things you see there while the most prominent is going to be the title.
And that's one of the major ranking search factors of a page the words you use in the title greatly
affect the terms that page ranks for.
Where exactly does this title come from.
Well it's actually just inside the H.G. mail code that makes up your page.
Now there's a section near the top of your HDL pages it's your index page called the header and in the
header is a tag called title.
Go figure.
Now if you don't hand code page to email and not many people do these days you may be publishing pages
and WordPress or some other content management system so you'll set the title for your page in a field
called perhaps title know near the top of your editing screen and WordPress.
It's just in the settings the HMO code is important to see though.
Let me show you.
I'm going to click on this Rainbird Sprinkler system installation guide search result and then I'm going
to view the source code of that page that comes up.
Now the source code is all the HD him all that makes up the page.
Now here in the source you can see this tag near the top.
Now the way you guys look for source it just depends here on Firefox or Chrome chrome you just literally
right click go to view source.
So that code defines the title of the page whatever is in that tag appears at the top of the browser
tab and it's what people see on the server when this page comes up.
But most importantly this particular example of a title is extremely clear.
What's this page about the Rainbird company has published an installation guide for a sprinkler system.
It's pretty obvious right.
And you'd expect the contents of the page going to match that title.
So this example of a title tag is a good example to follow.
So when defining your own title tags you want to make sure you do a few things right.
Number one make your title very clear.
Just like our Rainbird example the average person should be able to read your title and understand immediately
what they'll find on the page.
They'll be reading that title on the Serb.
Most likely.
So make sure it's obvious that your page is all about and obviously helps that if your title is related
to the search term you're going for google will give you a bump for that usually the case that that
was a big bump.
Now it's kind of kind of goes without saying.
More importantly though now is the match between the title and the page because if someone's read the
title and it doesn't accurately represent what's on the page they'll click through and they'll bounce.
Why does that matter to Google.
Well guess what Google actually tracks that Google pays attention to how long Google say on your page.
So if people keep going to this page and leaving immediately the probably figured out they shouldn't
be ranking for this this search term and that is the number two tip is just make sure it's accurate
in fact as someone described it on the page or show them the page first and then describe the title
and see what they say.
Does it make sense is it obvious or does it make them stop and think for a second try not to make the
page sound better than it actually is as well.
Do you put best irrigation system ever or even you know free money click here.
Well those might sound enticing but they wouldn't exactly be accurate to make it clear 100 percent accurate.
And that might mean being brutally honest with yourself.
Number three is make your title unique.
The title page tells us what the page is about.
What's the main subject of it.
If you make the title of every page on your site the same thing.
Well Google will think you're trying to make every page rank for the same topic and they might actually
penalize your page for that or drop it from its rankings entirely.
Every page is different even if every page on your site is about the same sprinkler system in some way.
There has to be some difference between them right sprinkler system installation sprinkler system repair
sprinkler system estimate sprinkler system parts.
These are all unique enough that differences are clear.
So make every title unique for each page you create make your title concise and keep it under 60 characters
a lot of these suggestions are best practices.
So the limit on the length might seem strict in comparison.
Well it's for a good reason when you view it as the Sharpie on a mobile device which is where most searches
are being done these days actually.
Google can usually show the first 60 characters or so of the title before it has to put it in an ellipsis.
You know the dot dot dots at the end.
Honestly you should be able to sum up the main idea of every page you create in less than 60 characters
with the exception of blog titles which I know can sometimes be longer for creative purposes but in
those cases just make sure that the first 60 characters gets the point across.
In general if they don't it's going to not perform as well on mobile she means guess what Google is
going to rank lower.
So the best practice is 60 characters or less.
If you can do it.
Keep in mind the title's not only show up on ACR piece but also when a page gets shared on social media
Facebook and Twitter don't show much more than that 60 character count in their apps anyway.
So make sure people can see the entire title and try your best to keep it least coherent on their 60
characters.
Okay so that's the title tag but what about those two things you see on the SRP the U.R.L. and the description.
Well you are Alice.
Well the URL whatever the page is you are all gets automatically displayed.
There's nothing for you really to do there although I do have some thoughts and site structure that
could make your your URLs look more attractive to people.
Well actually discuss those in a later lecture.
Now what is Google like.
Well Google likes to see the title of the you are well matched to the keyword but also to the title
of the page.
Again just looking for accuracy if the title of the page is how to make the best sandwich in the world
but the you are all a slug as your Web site dot com slash.
How to create some Manet's.
Well then OK.
You obviously have a mismatch and that will get penalized.
It's also generally worth saying that when you pick the name of your you are l try not to change it
too often because Google also looks at how long it's been up.
So if you keep changing it well it's not going to rank for something for very long.
Now the description is the last part and it's something you can control.
The description is a field in the header code just like the title and it looks like this.
Okay.
Now the interesting thing is that this field is not a ranking factor for SC ho.
Believe it or not it has absolutely zero bearing on the ranking.
So many people ignore it.
It's actually an optional field.
It used to be the case that people would just stuff tons of keywords in it.
So if you looked at their keywords it would be like a like a crappy Craigslist ad or just have hundreds
of different words stuck together in it in no coherent order.
However of course when I say it's not a ranking factor it's not a direct ranking factor.
Indirectly if you have a good description that means more people click it and more people clicking it
and then being satisfied will rank higher.
So it's only indirect for a non ranking feel it's kind of interesting.
Google would make it visible and search results at all if they didn't directly care about it.
While it's obviously worth taking advantage of I probably shouldn't say this but the point of SGI is
not just to get ranked really really high.
Google can only do so much for you even if you're the number one search result but your description
is terrible.
Your title is terrible and you somehow manage to do it.
That just means you're not going to as many people so do actually put some effort into optimizing this
as well.
Should you use the description.
Yeah absolutely you absolutely should.
If at the bare minimum you'll use description other people won't.
And I'll make your link stick out.
Generally speaking one sentence is all you need.
If you want you can do two.
All right so this is a good start or discussion of.
On page FCO factors.
Let's take a break here.
Most guys more in the next lecture.
Right guys.
See you then.